>> Jem Young: Security is honestly one
of the most important things you'll do,
which kind of run contrary
to what we do as engineers.
We think, no, my job is to build
things and connect things and
make sure the pipes are running
smoothly and everything like that.
But the thing about security is none of,
none of your cleverness, none of
your code, none of your fast application
matters if you have no security.
Because you know what's gonna happen,
some 13 year-old is gonna come in and
wipe your server or he said to you
mine Bitcoin or something like that.
Why, because they can.
And as we noted when
we looked at our blog.
People are trying all the time.
They're trying right now on your
server and you're thinking,
I don't have anything worthwhile.
I'm gonna keep my BitCoins on my server.
Hopefully you don't.
But people wanna get in anyways just
because they use it to build lots of
nefarious things or just try to steal
passwords, credit card information,
things like that.
You never know what's
gonna be on a server.
So people just wanna know and
they're gonna keep trying to get in.
So security is one of the more
important things we're doing.
That's why there's
an entire section on this.
Even though it's full stack engineers,
you probably won't do as
much security as you think.
There's dedicated people that dedicate
their entire lives just doing security and
operations, security, things like that.
But these are good practices
to keep in top of mind.
So the question on security is,
jump there,
what could someone do if they gained
just to access to your server, anybody?
What could someone do if they
gained access to your server?
Yes, Gale?
>> Speaker 2: If you do the horrible
thing of reusing your password,
they have your password for other things.
>> Jem Young: Yes, that's a good one and
that's more common you think.
I've seen security professionals that
they have their password taped to their
monitor, because old
habits are hard to break,
which is why we don't even
use passwords in this class.
We use SSH keys because you
while you can reuse those,
you can't steal unless you physically
take someone's computer or their device.
What else can someone do if they
have access to your server?
>> Speaker 3: Redirect your site to them.
Nefarious sites.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, they can absolutely.
They can say, I want to bankofusa.com.
But it's actually not actually
bankofusa.com to site that looks exactly
like it because they can just
copy your HTML and CSS and JS.
And then everytime you
type in your credentials,
they're just cyphing that off.
Even better if you weren't using HTTPS,
they can actually forward
everything to the actual real site.
So that the the people running the site
don't know that it's broken and
they're just stealing all
the traffic in between.
That is actually it's called
a man in the middle attack.
And that's very, very common, before HTTPS
and, honestly, it's still far to common.
There's easier ways to prevent that.
What else could someone do?
Anything, what else?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: They can kind of run
their own server on your server and
until you get banned.
And then all of a sudden, your legit stuff
is not working cuz your IPs are banned
from services like a mailbot or
something like that.
Like when people's bridges
were spamming the world.
>> Jem Young: Yeah,
they can lock you out of your own server.
So that like all that data and
all that time and code you put in,
they can steal it and lock you out
of it and you can't get it back.
And you'll say,
DigitalOcean I can't get in my own server.
They'll be like we can't
get in your server.
That's on you, pal.
What else could people do?
I wanna hear more,
Mark do you have something?
>> Speaker 3: Scrape your database.
>> Jem Young: They can scrape your
database, they can take all that credit
card information or
unencrypted passwords which today,
people still leave unencrypted
password in database.
Don't do that.
Hopefully, you will never be in that
position where you have to be saving
passwords to database.
They'll be someone who
is more qualified but
most of the hacks of the internet
were by people who got hacked.
Because someone like me who knows
enough to be dangerous thought,
I’ll use an MD5 hash.
But I'll just do it five times and
I'll hash a password using MD5 which
is a very breakable hashing mechanism.
And I'll save that and it looks secure.
But because the database
wasn't locked down and
the permission weren't locked down.
They got into the database and
you are like, it's okay
because everything is still safe cuz it's
encrypted and then they decrypted that.
Honestly and that happens way more
often than you'd like to think.
And because there's
a password reach every other
day now it seems like it's
all due to bad security.
And that's why security is really,
really important because at the core,
if you're running a hospital or
bank or I don't know,
investment company you have
people's lives in your hands.
Your life can be ruined if someone steals
your password, steals all your money or
something like that you can't pay rent,
the power gets shut off things like that.
So security is really, really important.
What's probably even more
common thing that happens when
people servers get broken into.
This one's a little trickier.
>> Speaker 2: Overloaded with requests.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, so
that's the end result,
what they do is they could turn
into what's known as a botnet.
And that's just a program
that they install a backdoor.
They won't do anything.
And in fact, if you're really good in
Unix, you can delete all the logs.
So someone could break in,
do a bunch of stuff,
delete the logs that show that they
ever were there which is pretty common.
There's a script that will do it for you.
And then they just turn into like a silent
botnet and they might not do anything for
months or even years.
But when it comes time they can
activate your server, shut down all
the running programs and then turn
that into a way of DDoSing people.
That's distributed denial of attack, which
means I can take all of my servers and
point at, say,
netflix.com and try to take down
assigned level of overwhelming traffic.
That is overwhelmingly what
a lot of hack servers do.
And then once they're done hacking,
sometimes they just wipe
your servers completely.
The more nefarious ones,
we're starting to see a lot more,
is what is called cryptojacking or
ransoming.
So what they'll do is,
Mark like you're saying earlier,
they'll steal your database credentials,
they'll encrypt all of them.
They'll encrypt your entire database
which is, invaluable information and
then they'll sell it back to you for
money.
Because they encrypted it and
they only they have the password.
That happens a lot, especially with
hospitals and entire towns in America
are getting a ransom because they
still they took over their server and
encrypted everything.
So at that point, you can say I'm gonna
lose 20, 30, 40 years with the data, or
I'm gonna pay these people ransom.
And there's no guarantee they didn't leave
others things in your system that will
pop up to three years
later that you can't find.
So all that is to scare you, and
deliberately cuz it's really scary
if someone gets in your server.
Now someone gets root access,
it's game over.
You can do anything you want with root,
which is why the first thing
we do is disable root.
But it's not a cure all.